[Music]
dr. Schultz is now using new MRI
techniques to compare Abby's patients
brains before and after gastric bypass
surgery and today I'm part of her
experiment first she shows me a
selection of high fat foods and the MRI
scans my brain for activity indicating
my subconscious desire for these foods
then unshown healthy foods and the MRI
measures again it's actually quite
unnerving because with this machine you
can't hide your feelings later she shows
me what she's found so you've got some
MRIs to show me this is the the activity
in your brain or the areas that are lit
up the red areas the areas that are more
active when you were looking at the high
calorie pictures the pictures of high
calorie appetizing foods and high fat
food was clearly having very little
effect on my brain this is a sort of
representative MRI for someone of normal
weight yes fairly representative of of
that kind of picture if we look on the
other hand of someone who's just about
to have gastric bypass surgery you can
see quite a big difference here so this
is the obese or overweight persons scan
yes this is the activation in her brain
looking exactly the same pictures as you
were looking at Wow a beef patient you
can see big yeah that's huge isn't it so
you're seeing a lot of activation in
areas that we know are associated with
rewards such as the orbitofrontal cortex
here and from the ventral striatum
amygdala there is the brain associate
with addiction and an emotional response
to food the blue was revealing the obese
brains deep desire for
fatty food so the green is her the same
lady after she's had gastric bypass
surgery about five months later the
patient's brain responds to fatty food
has now totally changed so it's a really
striking distracting difference yet if
we were to compare this person's brain
after surgery to your brain and so
someone who's of normal weight you can
see there's not a lot of difference
there
[Music]
I'm really impressed the operation seems
somehow to have press the reset button
in the brain
I mean this scan looks like you have
changed the brain of a fat person to
like that of a normal weight person in
effect what we're doing with the bypass
surgery is changing somebody's brain
fundamentally so that their reaction to
seeing high-calorie foods is different
and that would ultimately drive their
choices of foods so that they stop
having that same battle with food that
they would have had before and a more
like someone like yourself who doesn't
have that same battle with food
you